RAM Legacy: a new global stock assessment database for
exploited marine species
Alternative Title 1: Assessing the knowledge-base for commercially exploited marine fishes
and invertebrates with a new global database of stock assessments
Alternative Title 2: Understanding marine population dynamics using a new global database
Suggested Running Title: A new global stock assessment database
Daniel Ricarda,\2217
, CÛil¥\0131n Mintoa,1
, Julia Baumb,2
, Olaf Jensenc,3
aDepartment of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS B3H 4J1, Canada
bScripps Institution of Oceanography, UCSD, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0202, USA
cSchool of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-5020, USA
\2217Corresponding author: Tel: 902-494-2146, Fax: 902-494-3736
Email address: ricardd@mathstat.dal.ca (Daniel Ricard)
1Current Address: Marine and Freshwater Research Centre, Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology,
Dublin Road, Galway, Ireland
2Current Address: National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, UCSB, 735 State St.
Suite 300, Santa Barbara, CA 93101, USA
3Current Address: Institute of Marine and Coastal Sciences, Rutgers University, 71 Dudley Road,
New Brunswick, NJ 08901-8525, USA
To be submitted to Fish and Fisheries August 4, 2010

Abstract
To facilitate global analyses of population dynamics and the status of fished species,
we have assembled a new database, the RAM Legacy Database, of the most intensively
studied commercially exploited marine fish stocks. Results from assessment models,
including time series of total biomass, spawner biomass, recruits, fishing mortality, and
catch; reference points; and ancillary information on the life history, management, and
assessment methods for each stock. Here, we present the first overview of this database
and use it to evaluate the knowledge-base for assessed marine species. Assessments were
assembled for 324 stocks (288 fish species representing 45 families, and 36 invertebrate
species representing 12 families), including 8 of the world's 10 largest fisheries. Assessments
were obtained from 18 national and international management institutions, with most
coming from North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and the high seas. Stocks
present in the database come from 31 Large Marine Ecosystems and cover the Atlantic,
Pacific, Indian, Mediterranean, Arctic and Antarctic Ocean. Reference points were
available or could be calculated for about 74% of these stocks. The available data
provide new insight into the status of exploited populations, 57% of stocks with reference
points were estimated to be below Bmsy, and 29% had exploitation levels estimated to
be above Umsy. Assessed marine fish stocks comprise a relatively small proportion
of harvested taxa (24%), and an even smaller proportion of marine fish biodiversity
(1%). We hope that access to the database will facilitate new research into life histories,
population dynamics and the effects of fishing and encourage further data contributions
from stock assessment scientists.
Keywords: marine fisheries, meta-analysis, population dynamics models, relational
database, stock assessment, synthesis.
2

Introduction
Marine wild capture fisheries provide more than 80 million tons of fisheries products
(both food and industrial) per year and employ 43.5 million people (wild capture and
aquaculture, (FAO, 2009b)). At the same time, fishing has been recognized as having
one of the most widespread human impacts in the world's oceans (Halpern et al., 2008),
and the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates
that two-thirds of fish stocks globally are fully exploited or overexploited (FAO, 2009b).
While many fisheries have reduced exploitation rates to levels that should in theory
promote recovery, overfishing continues to be a serious global problem (Worm et al.,
2009). Fishery managers are asked to address multiple competing objectives, including
maximizing yields, ensuring profitability, reducing bycatch, and minimizing the risk
of overfishing. Given the large social and economic costs (Rice et al., 2003) and
ecosystem consequences (Frank et al., 2005; Myers et al., 2007) of collapsed fisheries, it
is imperative that we are able to quickly learn from successful and failed fisheries from
around the world.
Effective management of exploited fish populations generally requires an understanding
of where the current size and harvest rate lie in relation to the size and rate which
maximize fishery benefits or limit the risk of overfishing. This process of quantitative
determination of stock status and estimation of reference points is called stock assessment.
Some fisheries in developing countries have apparently provided sustainable yields for
long periods of time without formal stock assessment (e.g. many community-managed
fisheries in Oceania; Dalzell (1998)). This sustainability has been achieved by limiting
harvest rates, often through gear restrictions or seasonal and area closures. In modern
industrialized fisheries, however, where fishing capacity often exceeds the productivity
of fished stocks, stock assessment is an integral component of responsible management
(Hilborn and Walters, 1992).
The global databases of fishery landings compiled by FAO (2009a) and extended by
the Sea Around Us project (Watson et al., 2004) have proven to be valuable resources
3

for understanding the status of fisheries worldwide; however, catch data alone can be
misleading when used as a proxy for stock size. Many papers have used these data to
examine changes in fishery status (Worm et al., 2006; Costello et al., 2008), including
changes in trophic level (Pauly et al., 1998; Essington et al., 2006; Newton et al., 2007).
Most of these analyses rely (either explicitly or implicitly) on the assumption that catch
or landings is a reliable index of stock size. Critics have pointed out that catch can
change for a number of reasons unrelated to stock size, including changes in targeting,
fishing restrictions, or market preferences (de Mutsert et al., 2008; Murawski et al.,
2007; Hilborn, 2007; Caddy et al., 1998). Standardizing catch by the amount of fishing
effort (catch-per-unit-of-effort, CPUE) is an improvement, particularly when these data
are modeled to account for spatial, temporal, and operational factors affecting the
CPUE (Maunder and Punt, 2004), but CPUE can still be an unreliable index of relative
abundance since it is difficult to account for all relevant factors (Hutchings and Myers,
1994; Harley et al., 2001; Walters, 2003; Polacheck, 2006).
Stock assessments consider time series of catch along with other sources of information
such as: natural mortality rates, changes in size or age composition, stock-recruitment
relationships, and CPUE coming from different fisheries and/or from fishery-independent
surveys. Because they integrate across multiple sources of information, stock assessment
models should provide a more accurate picture of changes in abundance than catch
data alone (Sibert et al., 2006), the trade-off being that their complexity renders
them difficult for non-experts to evaluate. Without a current and comprehensive
database of stock assessments, however scientists wishing to conduct comparative
analyses of marine fish population dynamics and fishery status have little choice but
to use problematic catch data.
The first global database of stock assessment information, the Myers Stock Recruitment
Database, was developed by the late Ransom A. Myers and colleagues in the mid-1990s
(Myers et al., 1995b). While the database was primarily known for its time series of
stock and recruitment, it did contain time series of fishing mortality rates for many
stocks; biological reference points were however largely absent. The original release
4

version of the Myers database (Myers et al., 1995b) included spawning stock size and
recruitment time series for 274 stocks representing 92 species as well as fishing mortality
rates time series for 144 stocks. The number of entered stocks grew to approximately
642 stocks (509 with at least one SR pair) by 2005. Note that anadromous fishes of the
family Salmonidae comprised 290 assessments in the original database. The assessment
results collated by Dr. Myers were used to: 1) decisively answer the question of whether
recruitment shows any relationship to spawning stock size (Myers and Barrowman,
1996), 2) investigate potential depensation in stock-recruitment relationships (Myers
et al., 1995a; Liermann and Hilborn, 1997; Garvey et al., 2009), 3) discover generalities
in the annual reproductive rates of fishes (Myers et al., 1999, 2002b), 4) investigate
density-dependence in juvenile mortality (Myers, 2001; Minto et al., 2008), 5) develop
informative Bayesian priors on steepness (Myers et al., 1999, 2002a; Dorn, 2002), and
6) examine patterns of collapse and recovery in exploited fish populations (Hilborn,
1997; Hutchings, 2001a,b) .
Although the original Myers database (Myers et al., 1995b) was critical for motivating
comparative analyses in fisheries science, most of the stocks are now 15 years out of date.
For stocks that were depleted in 1995, the past 15 years include valuable observations
at low stock size or of a recovering population, both of which are critical for estimating
population dynamics parameters such as the behaviour of the stock-recruitment relationship
near the origin. In addition, there have been numerous improvements in stock assessment
methodologies (including important advances in statistical catch-at-age and catch-at-length
models) and assessments have been conducted for the first time for many species.
Meta-analyses of fishery status also have been hampered by the lack of a global
assessment database containing biological reference points (BRPs, e.g., the total/spawning
biomass and fishing mortality rate that produce Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY),
BMSY and FMSY ). Knowledge of BRPs is important if stocks are to be managed for high
yields that can be sustained over time (Mace, 1994). Without information on reference
points, previous analyses of stock assessments or catch data have instead relied upon
non-biological thresholds to define fishery status, such as the greatest 15-year decline
5

(Hutchings and Reynolds, 2004) or 10 percent of maximum catch (Worm et al., 2006).
Ad hoc reference points based on some fraction of the maximum of a time series also
have undesirable statistical properties and can result in false collapses when applied to
inherently variable time series of catch or abundance (Wilberg and Miller, 2007; Branch,
2008). Complicating comparisons of fishery status is the fact that different BRPs are
used in different parts of the world and even the same BRP can be used in a different
manner, for example, as a target or as a limit.
Here we present a new global database of stock assessments for commercially exploited
marine fish populations. The database is an update and extension of that developed by
Ransom A. Myers, and is named the RAM Legacy database in honour of his pioneering
contribution. This effort is the first global stock assessment database to:
1. Use a formal relational database structure;
2. Use source control software to organise release versions;
3. Include metadata related to the geographic location of the stock, the type of
assessment model used, and the original source document for the assessment data;
4. Include biological reference points, in addition to stock-specific life history information.
We use the new RAM Legacy database (Version 1.0, 2010) to evaluate the knowledge-base
for commercially exploited marine populations in terms of institutional contributions,
geography, taxonomy, ecology, timespan, stock assessment methodologies and BRPs.
We compare the database's taxonomic coverage to that of global fisheries catches and
to global fish diversity. We then evaluate the status of assessed stocks globally, and
by management body, referencing all stocks to a comparable benchmark. Finally, we
discuss biases in the knowledge base for assessed marine species, highlight potential
applications of the database, point out its caveats and limitations, and outline directions
for future development.
6

Methods
The RAM Legacy database
The RAM Legacy database is a global relational database designed and developed
to store data from all current and accessible population dynamics model-based fisheries
stock assessments for marine fish and invertebrate populations. Time series of spawning
stock biomass (SSB), total biomass (TB), recruits (R), total catch (TC) or landings
(TL), and fishing mortality (F) from individual stock assessments form the core of
the database. Apart from catch/landings, these time series are not raw data, but
rather the output of population dynamics models; depending on the type of assessment
model not all of these time series were available for every stock. The database also
contains details about the time series data, including the age and sex of spawners, age
of recruits, and the ages used to compute the fishing mortality, as well as BRPs and
some life history information (e.g. growth parameters, age and length at 50% maturity
and natural mortality rate). Metadata for each stock assessment consists of taxonomic
information about the species and the geographic location of the stock (detailed in
``Links to related databases''), the management body that conducted the assessment,
the assessment methodology, the reference for the stock assessment document, the
name of the recorder entering the assessment data, and the date the assessment was
entered. Some assessments, particularly those for invertebrates, were based only on
CPUE time series rather than population dynamics models. While we included these
in the database (n=26), the database description and analyses presented here focus on
those stocks assessed using population dynamics models.
Over the past two and a half years, we have employed a variety of search methods
in an attempt to obtain all recent fisheries stock assessments. Publicly available stock
assessment reports available from the internet were the primary data source. These
reports were obtained either from the website of the relevant management agency or
directly from stock assessment scientists. Other assessments were obtained from the
primary literature and through personal contacts at fisheries management agencies.
7

Significant contributions were made by many members of the National Center for
Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS) working group ``Finding common ground in
marine conservation and management''. Relevant assessment data were first transferred
into a standardized spreadsheet template by a number of recorders, including ourselves,
assessment authors, our NCEAS collaborators, and associated graduate students and
postdoctoral researchers, and then uploaded into the relational database.
Database structure and advantages
The database is implemented in the Open Source PostgreSQL relational database
management system (RDBMS) (PostgreSQL Global Development Group, 2010), and
includes tables for the assessment metadata, time series values, time series units, and
biometrics (a catch-all term for data, such as life history characteristics or BRPs, that
are not part of a time series). The entity relationship diagram of the database and its
component tables can be found in the Supplementary Materials.
RDBMSs form the server back-end to many applications of interest to ecologists,
including web-clients and GIS software, and have a number of advantages over spreadsheet
or flat text file data compilations. First, housing stock assessments in an RDBMS
allows multiple users to concurrently access and extract subsets of data in an efficient
and reproducible manner. Second, with the development of Application Programming
Interfaces (APIs) that allow analytical software to directly communicate and extract
data from the database, a common data environment is established, independent of
one's choice of analytical software (e.g., SAS:SAS ACCESS, Matlab: Matlab/Database,
R:RDBI/RODBC, Perl:DBI, etc.). Users familiar with Structured Query Language
(SQL) can also query the database directly from their analytical software of choice
and the same SQL query will extract the same data through each of these applications.
Third, data products tailored to specific projects can be generated and stored as dynamic
(i.e., continually updated) ``views'' within the database. These are typically rectangular,
spreadsheet-like results of an expansive query of the relevant tables that can be readily
read into all commonly-used analytical software. The use of views is advantageous
8

over manipulating spreadsheets or flat text files for importing into a specific analytic
software, which runs the risk of losing data integrity (e.g. multiple copies) and becomes
impractical with large, non-tabular datasets and multiple users.
Data integrity and quality control
We have employed several mechanisms to ensure that the database is of high quality.
During the data recording process, assessment authors often were contacted to clarify
aspects of the assessment or to obtain more detailed data. Time series data presented
only in assessment report figures were, for example, only entered into the database if
the exact numbers could be obtained from the assessment or its authors. In cases where
multiple models were presented in an assessment without a preferred or best model
being denoted, we attempted to ascertain which model was preferred by the stock
assessment scientist, but included all model results whenever this was not possible.
Once uploaded into the database all stock assessments underwent an additional Quality
Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) step, to ensure that the entered data replicated
that of the original assessment document exactly. This process consisted of creating
a QA/QC summary document for each assessment, containing summary details of the
stock, a selection of biometrics and ratios for comparison (e.g. current status relative to
BRP), and time series plots of the biomass, recruitment, and exploitation trajectories.
QA/QC documents were then returned to assessment recorders and an electronic trail of
subsequent correspondence was captured using a bug tracking system. Recorders were
responsible for checking, and where necessary correcting, their QA/QC documents, after
which all corrections were transmitted back to the operational database and a quality
controlled flag was inserted to signify the assessment had passed the check. Only
assessments that have passed this QA/QC step are available for subsequent analyses.
Links to related databases
To facilitate integration of the RAM Legacy database with related databases, such
as Fishbase (Froese and Pauly, 2009) and the Sea Around Us Project's (SAUP) global
landings database (Watson et al., 2004), each species present in the RAM Legacy
9

database was assigned a matching FishBase species name and species code, a matching
SAUP taxon code, and taxonomic information from the Integrated Taxonomic Information
System (ITIS) (http://www.itis.gov). Additionally, each stock was assigned to a
primary (and in some cases secondary and tertiary) Large Marine Ecosystem (LME)
(Sherman et al., 1993). LMEs encompass the continental shelves of the world's oceans
and represent the most productive areas of the oceans. Open ocean areas beyond
the continental shelves are, however, not included in the LME classification. Large,
highly migratory oceanic species such as tuna were therefore assigned to new categories
``Atlantic high seas'', ``Pacific high seas'', ``Indian high seas'', and ``Subantarctic high
seas''.
Assessing the knowledge-base for commercially exploited stocks
Any collection of data necessarily provides an incomplete picture of the marine
ecosystem. To provide insight into the scope of the database we assessed the knowledge-base
for commercially exploited stocks, as represented by the RAM Legacy database, with
a variety of metrics. Such an analysis is essential to ensure that users recognise
appropriate applications of the data and the caveats that must be considered when
interpreting their analyses.
To evaluate the taxonomic scope of the database, we compare the taxonomy of
assessed stocks with the diversity of i) all marine fishes (as represented by FishBase),
and ii) marine fishes in global fisheries catches (as represented by the species available
from the SAUP database), and discuss taxonomic biases in species included in catch
data and in populations assessed with stock assessments. We overview the types
of assessment models used, and BRPs estimated, for all stock assessments and by
management body. To determine what fraction of world wild-capture fisheries landings
come from assessed stocks, we used the SAUP's average global fisheries catches from
the most recent ten years of available data (1995-2004); we also discuss limitations to
obtaining assessments for some of the world's major fisheries. Comparisons between
assessments and catch data at a regional level are hampered by the geographic mismatch
10

between stocks and FAO statistical areas or the SAUP's Large Marine Ecosystems.
Assessing the status of commercially exploited marine stocks
We evaluate the status of assessed stocks overall and by management body, using
standard reference points so that all stocks are referenced to a comparable benchmark.
Following Froese and Proelﬂ (2010) and Worm et al. (2009), we compare the current
biomass and exploitation rate of stocks relative to their MSY reference points, BMSY
and UMSY , respectively.
We recognized that MSY-related BRPS are not used by all management agencies
but they are the most commonly estimated BRP and can be used to compare multiple
stocks. For those assessments that did not contain MSY reference points, but did
include total catch (TCi,s, i \2208 1,...,ns) and total biomass (TBi,s, i \2208 1,...,ns) time
series data, we used a Schaefer surplus production model to estimate total biomass
and exploitation rate at MSY (TBMSYs and uMSY , respectively). Surplus production of
stock s in year t, Ps,t, is a commonly used measure of stock productivity, representing
the amount of catch that can be taken while maintaining the biomass at a constant
size, and can be calculated as:
Ps,t = TBs,t+1 - TBs,t + TCs,t (1)
where,
TBs,t is the total biomass of stock s in year t
TCs,t is the total catch of stock s in year t
We fit a Schaefer surplus-production model, which is based on a logistic model of
population growth to the catch and total biomass time series data. The predicted
surplus production in each year in the Schaefer model is given by:
\0124s,t = 4mTBs,t
K - 4m?TBs,t
K ?2
(2)
where,
11

m is the maximum sustainable yield, equal to rK/4 (r is the maximum intrinsic
population growth rate)
K is the carrying capacity or equilibrium total biomass in the absence of fishing
(Hilborn and Walters, 1992)
We estimated the model parameters (m and K) using maximum likelihood in AD
Model Builder (ADMB Project, 2009) assuming that the residuals ?s,t = Ps,t- \0124s,t were
normally distributed. For the Schaefer model, BMSY is simply 0.5K, and the harvest
rate that results in maximum sustainable yield, uMSY , is m/BMSY . For model fitting,
the carrying capacity parameter K was constrained to be less than twice the maximum
observed total biomass.
Statistical analyses and plot generation were conducted with the R Environment
for Statistics and Graphics (R Development Core Team, 2009) using the packages
RODBC for database connectivity (Ripley et al., 2009), KernSmooth for computing
density kernels (original by Matt Wand. R port by Brian Ripley., 2009) and ape to
produce taxonomic dendrograms (Paradis et al., 2004). Figure 1 was generated with
the Generic Mapping Tools (Wessel and Smith, 1991).
12

Results
The knowledge-base for commercially-exploited marine stocks
In total, 324 recent stock assessments for 288 marine fish and 36 invertebrate
populations are included in the RAM Legacy database (Version 1.0, 2010; Table S1).
Together these comprise time series of catch/landings for 307 stocks (95%), SSB estimates
for 274 stocks (85%), and recruitment estimates for 270 stocks (83%) (Table S1).
Management bodies and geography
Stock assessments are derived from fisheries management bodies in Europe, the
United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Russia, South Africa and Argentina
(Table 1). Also included are assessments conducted by eight Regional Fisheries Management
Organizations (RFMOs), in the Northwest Atlantic, Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Ocean
(Table 1). Assessments from the United States constitute by far the most stocks of
any country or region (n=139); assessments from the European Union's management
body, the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas (ICES), constitute the
the second greatest number of stocks (n=63). Whereas nations are responsible for
managing all populations within their EEZs, RFMOs typically focus on a certain type
of species (e.g. halibut, tunas) or fisheries (e.g. pelagic high seas) within a given area
and hence assess a smaller number of stocks.
Most assessments come from North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and
the high seas, while there are few from regions such as Southeast Asia, South America,
and the Indian Ocean (outside Australian waters) (Figure 1). Assessments were available
for 31 LMEs, with the greatest number of assessed stocks coming from Northeast U.S.
Continental Shelf (n=58), California Current (n=35), New Zealand Shelf (n=29), Gulf
of Alaska (n=26), Celtic-Biscay Shelf (n=26), East Bering Sea (n=22) and Southeast
U.S. Continental Shelf (n=20) (Figure 1).
13

Taxonomy
Assessments for 159 species from 57 families and 20 orders are included in the
database (Figure 2). Five taxonomic orders (Gadiformes (n=67), Perciformes (n=62),
Pleuronectiformes (n=53), Scorpaeniformes (n=40) and Clupeiformes (n=36)) account
for 80% of available stock assessments. Of these, Perciformes, the most speciose
Order of marine fishes are in fact underrepresented in the database (46% of all marine
fish species vs. 19% of all marine fish assessments), while the other four orders are
taxonomically overrepresented: Clupeiformes (2.1% of marine fishes vs. 11% in the
database), Gadiformes (3.3% of marine fishes vs. 21% in the database), Pleuronectiformes
(4.5% of marine fishes vs. 17% in the database), Scorpaeniformes (8.5% of marine fishes
vs. 12% in the database) (Figure 3).
Assessed marine fish stocks in the RAM Legacy database constitute a relatively
small proportion of harvested taxa (24% of fish species from the SAUP database) and
an even smaller proportion of marine fish biodiversity (1% of fish species in FishBase;
Figure 3). In turn, catches from the SAUP database, which come from 649 species
and 36 orders (Figure 3), represent only 5% of the 12339 species and 67% of the 54
different orders present in FishBase (Figure 3). The diversity of harvested marine
invertebrates is clearly underrepresented in the stock assessment database and likely in
stock assessments in general.
Ecology
Assessed species span a range of ecological traits. Some life-history information
(e.g. growth, maturity, fecundity) is available for 288 of the collated assessments. In
some cases, this information is derived from biological studies, while in other cases
life-history parameters represent model assumptions (e.g., natural mortality = 0.2) or
model estimates.
Timespan
The median lengths of catch/landings, SSB, and recruitment timeseries were 38, 34,
and 33 years, respectively (Figure 4). The time period covered by 90% of assessments
14

is: catch/landings (1967-2007), SSB (1972-2007), recruitment (1971-2006), while that
covered by 50% of assessments is: catch/landings (1983-2004), SSB (1985-2005), recruitment
(1984-2003) (Figure 4).
Stock assessment methodologies and BRPs
The three most common assessment methods were Statistical catch-at-age/length
models (n=164), Virtual Population Analyses (n=91) and Biomass dynamics model
(n=44). Regionally, Virtual Population Analysis (VPA) is still the most common
assessment model for European stocks (71% of 63 assessments), Canada (59% of 22
assessments) and Argentina (83% of 6 assessments), whereas statistical catch-at-age
and -length models are more common for the United States (66% of 139 assessments),
Australia (81% of 16 assessments) and New Zealand (76% of 29 assessments).
Biomass- or exploitation-based reference points were available for 256 (81%) and 221
(69%) assessments, respectively. The most commonly reported biomass-based BRPs
relate to biomass at MSY (e.g. Bmsy), to ``limit'' biomass (e.g. Blim, a biomass level
above which stocks should be maintained) and to ``precautionary approach'' biomass
(e.g. Bpa, a biomass level which provides an additional buffer to account for uncertainty).
Biomass and exploitation of United States' stocks under the management of NMFS must
follow MSY-based reference points whereas other fisheries agencies use different BRPs.
Global Fisheries
Assessments were available for 9 of the 10 largest fisheries for individual fish stocks
globally (Table 2). Assessments for Japanese anchovy in the East China Sea (the
eighth largest species for an individual stock, and tenth overall) were not publicly
accessible. Looking more broadly, the database contains assessments for 17 of the 30
largest fisheries for individual fish stocks globally, and 18 of the 40 largest fisheries
globally (including those recorded at lower taxonomic resolutions) (Table 2). Many
of the fisheries not included in the RAM Legacy database, especially those recorded
in the SAUP database as ``Marine fishes not identified'' (n=7), occur in developing
countries and have no known formal stock assessment conducted for them. From a
15

national perspective, assessments are only included for 2 of the top 10 wild-caught
marine fisheries producing nations, U.S.A. and Russia (FAO, 2009b), with only two
assessments from the latter. We were unable to obtain any assessments from the other
top 10 yield-producing countries: China, Peru, Indonesia, Japan, Chile, India, Thailand,
Philippines (FAO, 2009b).
The status of commercially exploited marine stocks
To evaluate stock status, we single out stocks for which both a biomass BRP
and an exploitation BRP are available. Of the 239 stocks presented in Figure 5, 112
and 127 of the biomass reference points and 83 and 156 of the exploitation reference
points come from assessments and from surplus production model fits, respectively.
To identify potential biases arising from using BRPs derived from surplus production
models we computed a contingency table of status classification for stocks that have
both assessment- and Schaefer-derived BRPs (Table S2). Surplus production models
correctly classified ratios of current biomass to BRPs in 69% of cases (for 67 of 97
assessments) and 62% of cases for exploitation BRPs (for 37 of 60 assessments).
Overall, 57% of stocks are estimated to be below their biomass-related MSY BRP,
that is Bcurr < Bmsy, and 29% are estimated to be above their exploitation-related MSY
BRP, Ucurr > Umsy (n=239 stocks total; Figure 5). Of the stocks for which biomass
is currently estimated to be below Bmsy, 55% have had their exploitation rate reduced
below Umsy, suggesting potential for recovery (Figure 5). The remaining 45% of these
stocks however, still have excessive exploitation rates (Figure 5). On a positive note,
43% of all stocks are estimated to be above Bmsy, and 91% of the stocks above Bmsy
also have Ucurrent below Umsy.
The status of exploited marine stocks, as estimated from biomass- and exploitaion-BRPs,
varied widely depending on the management body (Figure 6). Most European stocks
(managed by ICES) have biomasses less than Bmsy (79%), and over half of these stocks
(61%) still have exploitation rates exceeding Umsy. Canadian stocks (managed by DFO)
also had low biomass (79% < Bmsy), but all but one of these has had its exploitation
16

rate reduced below Umsy. In contrast, about half (21%) of U.S. stocks (managed by
NMFS) are estimated to still be above Bmsy, and of the 40 stocks that are below Bmsy
65% have exploitation rates below Umsy (Figure 6). In the New Zealand and Australian
waters, stocks managed by MFish and AFMA are above Bmsy in 21% and 42% of cases,
respectively. For the stocks grouped as ``Atlantic'' in Figure 6 we found that 6 of the
10 ICCAT stocks and 6 of the 10 of NAFO stocks were below Bmsy .
Discussion
The knowledge-base and status of commercially exploited marine stocks
The RAM Legacy Database provides detailed time series and point data from
available stock assessments for the world's industrial marine fisheries, thus providing
a basis for evaluating the existing knowledge-base and current status of these fisheries.
Accessible stock assessments are predominantly from developed nations in north-temperate
regions, and tend to cover only the past few decades, typically a significantly shorter
period than that for which the stock has been exploited. The taxonomic makeup of
available assessments is a very limited subset of the accepted taxonomic coverage of
marine species worldwide, and of globally exploited species. Most notably (with the
exception of tunas), assessments are not available for coral reef and other tropical fishes.
Inshore (e.g. estuarine species) and anadramous populations are also noteworthy in
their absence (as a result of our focus on federally or internationally managed marine
species) and, as such, any assessment of global status of exploited populations must be
interpreted only for that subset of exploited species for which assessments are present
in the database.
In its latest State of the World Fisheries and Aquaculture (FAO, 2009b), the
FAO reports that 20% of stocks are underexploited, 52% are fully exploited, 19% are
overexploited, 8% are depleted and 1% are recovering. While direct comparison with
these categories is difficult, we estimate that almost 60% of assessed stocks are below
the biomass reference point that maximises their yield. Almost half of stocks that are
17

below Bmsy still experience exploitation rates that are above those that would maximise
yield.
Biases in the knowledge-base for commercially exploited marine stocks
Geographic bias
Bias in the geographic scope of the RAM Legacy database (relative to that of
all fisheries globally) may arise for several reasons, all of which vary geographically
in their prevalence: 1. an assessment is not conducted on a stock; 2. it is not
possible to access the assessment; or 3. the non-exhaustive collation we undertook
overlooked the assessment. Whether an assessment is conducted for a given stock
depends upon a multitude of factors, including the economic value of the stock, the
availability of fiscal resources to collect the data required for an assessment (which
frequently includes conducting fisheries-independent research surveys) and the expertise
to conduct assessments. In general, conducting stock assessments is a costly endeavour
that is restricted to wealthy fishing nations. The legal context where fisheries are
prosecuted can also strongly influence the requirement for conducting stock assessments.
In the United States, the Magnuson-Stevens Act defines which stocks are to be monitored
and managed, hence a large number of the assessments in the RAM Legacy database
are under the jurisdiction of the US National Marine Fisheries Services. How accessible
assessments are for entry depends upon the transparency and access policies of the
relevant management agencies, which also varies geographically. Our search for assessments
could also give rise to geographic biases, as concerted collation efforts have only been
conducted in those known assessment-rich regions. It is hoped that readers of this
article can assist in correcting these biases by participating in future updates of the
RAM Legacy database, in particular, by helping to expand our coverage of stocks in
developing countries.
Even in developed countries, however, not all stocks are assessed. For example, in
2007, of the 528 fish and invertebrate stocks recognized by the National Marine Fisheries
Service (NMFS), only 179, or slightly over one-third, were fully assessed (National
18

Marine Fisheries Service, 2008). An assessment by the European Environment Agency
(EEA) in 2006 indicated that the percentage of commercial landings obtained from
assessed stocks ranged between 66-97 percent in northern European waters and 30-77
percent in the Mediterranean (European Environment Agency, 2009). The New Zealand
Ministry of Fisheries reports the status of 117 stocks or sub-stocks out of a total of
628 stocks managed under New Zealand's Quota Management System (New Zealand
Ministry of Fisheries, 2009). In Australia, 98 federally managed stocks have been
assessed (Wilson et al., 2009) out of an unknown total. The extent to which stocks are
assessed elsewhere in the world is generally lower (Mora et al., 2009).
Taxonomic bias
Related to geographic bias is the taxonomic bias in those species that are known,
caught and assessed. At a broad level the Gadiformes and Clupeiformes occupy disproportionate
taxonomic representation in the catch compared to overall species occurrence (Figure 3,
panels a and b). Taxonomic biases at this level may reflect behavioural tendencies
of the over-represented species in the catch to form large aggregated populations in
temperate regions that are readily accessible to fishing. Consumer preferences may also
be an important determinant of what taxonomic groups are more likely to be caught.
The over-representation of the Gadiformes and, to a lesser degree, the Clupeiformes,
continues when caught and assessed taxa are compared (Figure 3, panels b and c).
Historical economic importance as well as the geographic distribution of the taxa in
relation to mandated assessments may play important roles in determining what fished
taxa are assessed.
Temporal bias
Most of the assessments in the RAM Legacy database contain time series of 30
years or less whereas industrial fishing began long before this. Dominant age-structured
assessment methodologies typically rely on catch-at-age data, which are often available
for considerably shorter periods of time than total catch unless significant reconstruction
efforts are made. Such historical reconstructions of catch-at-age data are highly uncertain
19

and in many cases the ``base case'' models used for management are based only on more
reliable recent catch data. For assessments used in a tactical sense and for short-term
projection, e.g., to understand whether a particular quota level will result in an increase
or decrease in stock size, using only reliable recent catch data may be preferable. This is
particularly true for backward projection methods (e.g., VPA), which may converge on
parameter estimates within the more reliable recent period and potentially benefit little
from reaching further back in time. Nevertheless, a focus on only the recent history
of a fishery can be seriously misleading for strategic decisions about goals and BRPs.
Put simply, if we do not know what's historically possible (in terms of stock size), it's
hard to know where we should set our goals. This ``shifting baseline'' problem has been
widely recognized (Pauly, 1995; S·enz-Arroyo et al., 2005), but is still apparent in the
relatively short time series of most assessments.
Future applications of the RAM Legacy database
We anticipate that this new database will be of utility for fisheries scientists, ecologists,
and marine conservation biologists interested in conducting comparative analyses of
global fisheries status, collapse and recovery patterns, fisheries productivity or marine
population dynamics. In addition to the initial aim of providing reliable access to time
series information about stocks, we hope to also stimulate research in the relationships of
life-history characteristics and their relation to exploitation. The RAM Legacy database
contains the corresponding species codes to the Sea Around Us Project and FishBase,
thus facilitating researchers' use of a global fisheries data ``toolkit'' to address questions
on the relationships between life history attributes and resulting population dynamics
in an exploited setting.
Caveats and limitations
Stock assessment outputs (e.g. biomass time series), which constitute the majority
of the new RAM Legacy database are model estimates, not raw data. The uncertainty
associated with these estimates should be carried forth in subsequent analyses. Although
the database structure allows for inclusion of estimates of uncertainty (standard errors,
20

95% credible/confidence intervals), uncertainty estimates for time series data were
typically missing from assessments and hence were not included in the database. As
with any analysis, clearer inference on the strength of a signal is available when all
uncertainty in the data is carried forth.
BRPs derived from surplus production models are to be interpreted with great
care. For stocks with both assesment-derived and Schaefer-derived BRPs, we found
that estimates from surplus production models were systematically higher than those
obtained from assessments. This discrepancy stems from the fact that in the Schaefer
surplus production model, MSY occurs at 50% of the carrying capacity whereas in most
age-based assessment models, yield is maximised at a lower fraction of the carrying
capacity. The more flexible Pella-Tomlinson surplus production model allows for an
asymmetric production function where MSY can occur at a wider range of relative
biomass. Pella-Tomlinson models provided a better fit to data from individual stocks,
which is to be expected given their greater flexibility and the inclusion of an additional
parameter, however they performed no better in cross-validation than did the Schaefer
model.
The original database developed by Ransom A. Myers was used to address a variety
of ecological questions derived from stock-recruit relationships. This synthesis was
possible because the VPA-type assessment models that constituted most of that database
generated time series of stock and recruitment with relatively few a priori assumptions.
Forward projection methods generally specify the form of the stock-recruit relationship,
and in many cases even fix parameters (infinitely dense point prior) such as steepness.
Stock-recruitment ``data'' from such models, are clearly inappropriate for straightforward
meta-analysis. In general, as more assessments incorporate some type of prior information
from other stocks or species (Hilborn and Liermann, 1998), there is less stock-specific
information available for future meta-analysis (Minte-Vera et al., 2005). One solution
is for stock assessments to report not only best estimates of parameters based on all
available data, but also stock-specific parameter estimates that do not incorporate prior
information from other stocks or species.
21

Future development
New stocks will continue to be added to the RAM Legacy database, particularly
freshwater and anadramous populations (the Salmonidae constituted 45% of the stocks
in the original Myers Stock Recruitment Database), and updated assessments for already
included stocks. We hope that future versions of the database will also include timelines
of management actions per stock, as well as age-varying and length-varying data such
as maturity ogives and age-disaggregated natural mortality. Depending on availability,
subsequent releases of the database could also include estimates of assessment uncertainty.
Future database products will include management-agency-level reports containing
summaries of all stocks within their remit. The development of a standard for assessment
reporting at the management agency level would greatly assist in the acquisition of
new assessments, and hence to ensure that the database remains current. For example,
ICES assessments have a very regular standard, including agreed-upon reference points
and regular estimate reporting. This makes the process of data collation much more
routine than unstandardized documents where the recorder trawls through a report for
the relevant information. ICES also has a central database of assessments for stocks
of the region. Certainly different stocks and regions require different formats but basic
output tables, consisting of total and spawning biomass, recruitment, catch/landings,
estimated fishing mortality over vulnerable age groups, associated measures of uncertainty,
and commonly-used reference points would streamline the process immensely. A process
whereby the assessment spreadsheets are filled out at each assessment meeting would
facilitate the process even further and be the least error prone method. In return, the
assessment scientists can access results for a global collation of assessments to further
their own research initiatives in population assessment and management. The ultimate
goal is to provide a comprehensive stock assessment database for researchers to use
results from multiple regions to assist in their own applied and fundamental research
in population ecology, fisheries science, and conservation biology.
22

Availability of the database
Contributions or corrections to the existing database, as well as requests to use
the database (subject to standard ``Fair Use'' policies), should be directed to the
corresponding author.
Acknowledgments
We sincerely thank all of the fisheries scientists whose assessments form the basis of
this new global database. We are also grateful for the database contributions, advice,
and support of Trevor Branch, Jeremy Collie, Laurence Fauconnet, Mike Fogarty
and his staff at the Northeast Fisheries Science Center, Rainer Froese, Ray Hilborn,
Jeff Hutchings, Simon Jennings, Heike Lotze, Pamela Mace, Michael Melnychuk, Ana
Parma, Malin Pinsky, RenÈe PrÈfontaine, Kate Stanton, Reg Watson, Boris Worm,
Dirk Zeller, and the financial support of the National Science Foundation through
an NCEAS Working Group, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council
(NSERC) of Canada, the Canadian Foundation for Innovation, the David H. Smith
Conservation Research Fellowship, the Schmidt Research Vessel Institute, and the
Census of Marine Life's Future of Marine Animal Populations (CoML/FMAP). Comments
from the members of the NCEAS Working Group ``Finding common ground in marine
conservation and management'' greatly improved an earlier version of this manuscript.
23

ADMB Project (2009). AD Model Builder: automatic differentiation model builder.
Developed by David Fournier and freely available from admb-project.org.
Branch, T.A. (2008). Not all fisheries will be collapsed in 2048. Marine Policy 32,
38--39.
Caddy, J., Csirke, Garcia, S. and Grainger, R. (1998). How pervasive is ''Fishing down
marine food webs''. Science 282, 1383a.
Costello, C., Gaines, S.D. and Lynham, J. (2008). Can catch shares prevent fisheries
collapse? Science 321, 1678--1681.
Dalzell, P. (1998). The role of archaeological and cultural-historical records in
long-range coastal fisheries resources management strategies and policies in the
Pacific Island. Ocean & Coastal Management 40.
de Mutsert, K., Cowan, Jr., J.H., Essington, T.E. and Hilborn, R. (2008). Reanalyses of
Gulf of Mexico fisheries data: Landings can be misleading in assessments of fisheries
and fisheries ecosystems. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105,
2740--2744.
Dorn, M. (2002). Advice on West Coast rockfish harvest rates from Bayesian
meta-analysis of stock-recruit relationships. North American Journal of Fisheries
Management 22, 280--300.
Essington, T.E., Beaudreau, A.H. and Wiedenmann, J. (2006). Fishing through marine
food webs. Proceedings of the National Academy of Science 103, 3171--3175.
European Environment Agency (2009). SI-032 Status of marine fish stocks.
Http://www.eea.europa.eu.
FAO (2009a). FISHSTAT-PC: Data retrieval, graphical and analytical software for
microcomputers.
FAO (2009b). The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture (SOFIA) report 2008.
24

Frank, K., Petrie, B., Choi, J. and Leggett, W. (2005). Trophic cascades in a formerly
cod-dominated ecosystem. Science 308, 1621--1623.
Froese, R. and Proelﬂ, A. (2010). Rebuilding fish stocks no later than 2015: will Europe
meet the deadline? Fish and Fisheries 11, 194--202.
Froese, R. and Pauly, D. (2009). FishBase www.fishbase.org, version (10/2009). World
Wide Web electronic publication.
Garvey, J., Wright, R. and Marschall, E. (2009). Searching for threshold shifts
in spawner-recruit data. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 66,
312--320.
Halpern, B., Walbridge, S., Selkoe, K. et al. (2008). A global map of human impact on
marine ecosystems. Science 319, 948--952.
Harley, S., Myers, R. and Dunn, A. (2001). Is catch-per-unit-effort proportional to
abundance? Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 58, 1705--1772.
Hilborn, R., ed. (1997). The frequency and severity of fish stock declines and increases.
Developing and sustaining world fisheries resources. Proceedings of the 2nd World
Fisheries Congress. CSIRO Publishing, Victoria, Australia.
Hilborn, R. and Liermann, M. (1998). Standing on the shoulders of giants: learning
from experience in fisheries. Reviews in Fish Biology and Fisheries pp. 273--283.
Hilborn, R. and Walters, C.J. (1992). Quantitative Fisheries Stock Assessment: Choice,
Dynamics and Uncertainty. Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Hilborn, R. (2007). Biodiversity loss in the ocean: how bad is it? Science 316, 1281.
Hutchings, J. (2001a). Conservation biology of marine fishes: perceptions and caveats
regarding assignment of extinction risk. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic
Sciences 58.
25

Hutchings, J. (2001b). Influence of population decline, fishing, and spawner variability
on the recovery of marine fishes. Journal of Fish Biology Suppl. A, 306--322.
Hutchings, J. and Myers, R. (1994). What can be learned from the collapse of a
renewable resource? Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua, of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 51, 2126--2146.
Hutchings, J. and Reynolds, J. (2004). Marine fish population collapses: Consequences
for recovery and extinction risk. BioScience 54, 297--309.
Liermann, M. and Hilborn, R. (1997). Depensation in fish stocks: a hierarchic Bayesian
meta-analysis. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 54, 1976--1984.
Mace, P.M. (1994). Relationships between Common Biological Reference Points Used
as Thresholds and Targets of Fisheries Management Strategies. Canadian Journal
of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 51, 110--122.
Maunder, M.N. and Punt, A.E. (2004). Standardizing catch and effort data: a review
of recent approaches. Fisheries Research 70, 141--159.
Minte-Vera, C.V., Branch, T.A., Stewart, I. and Dorn, M. (2005). Practical application
of meta-analysis results: avoiding the double use of data. Canadian Journal of
Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 62, 925--929.
Minto, C., Myers, R.A. and Blanchard, W. (2008). Survival variability and population
density in fish populations. Nature 452, 344--347.
Mora, C., Myers, R.A., Coll, M. et al. (2009). Management Effectiveness of the World's
Marine Fisheries. PLoS Biol 7(6), e1000131.
Murawski, S., Methot, R. and Tromble, G. (2007). Biodiversity Loss in the Ocean:
How Bad Is It? Science 316, 1281.
26

Myers, R.A. (2001). Stock and recruitment: Generalizations about maximum
reproductive rate, density dependence and variability using meta-analytic approaches.
ICES Journal of Marine Science 58, 937--951.
Myers, R. and Barrowman, N. (1996). Is fish recruitment related to spawner abundance?
Fishery Bulletin 94, 707--724.
Myers, R., Barrowman, N., Hilborn, R. and Kehler, D. (2002a). Inferring bayesian
priors with limited direct data: applications to risk analysis. North American Journal
of Fisheries Management 22, 351--364.
Myers, R., Barrowman, N., Hutchings, J. and Rosenberg, A. (1995a). Population
dynamics of exploited fish stocks at low population levels. Science 269, 1106--1108.
Myers, R., Baum, J., Shepherd, T., Powers, S. and Peterson, C. (2007). Cascading
Effects of the Loss of Apex Predatory Sharks from a Coastal Ocean. Science 315,
1846--1850.
Myers, R., Bowen, K. and Barrowman, N. (1999). Maximum reproductive rate of fish
at low population sizes. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 56,
2404--2419.
Myers, R., MacKenzie, B., Bowen, B. and Barrowman, N. (2002b). What is the carrying
capacity for fish in the ocean? A meta-analysis of population dynamics of North
Atlantic cod. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 58, 1464--1476.
Myers, R.A., Bridson, J. and N.J., B. (1995b). Summary of Worldwide Spawner and
Recruitment Data. Canadian Technical Report of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences,
No. 2020 p. 327.
National Marine Fisheries Service (2008). Status of US Fisheries 2007. Tech. rep.,
NMFS. Http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/sfa/statusoffisheries/SOSmain.htm.
27

New Zealand Ministry of Fisheries (2009). Stock Status
http://fs.fish.govt.nz/Page.aspx?pk=16.
Newton, K., CÙtÈ, I., Pilling, G., Jennings, S. and Dulvy, N. (2007). Current and
Future Sustainability of Island Coral Reef Fisheries. Current Biology 17, 655--658.
original by Matt Wand. R port by Brian Ripley., S. (2009). KernSmooth: Functions
for kernel smoothing for Wand & Jones (1995). R package version 2.23-2.
Paradis, E., Claude, J. and Strimmer, K. (2004). APE: analyses of phylogenetics and
evolution in R language. Bioinformatics 20, 289--290.
Pauly, D. (1995). Anecdotes and the shifting baseline syndrome of fisheries. Trends in
Ecology and Evolution 10, 430.
Pauly, D., Christensen, V., Dalsgaard, J., Froese, R. and Torres, Jr., F. (1998). Fishing
Down Marine Food Webs. Science 279, 860--863.
Polacheck, T. (2006). Tuna longline catch rates in the Indian Ocean: Did industrial
fishing result in a 90% rapid decline in the abundance of large predatory species.
Marine Policy 30, 470--482.
PostgreSQL Global Development Group (2010). PostgreSQL, version 8.4.4.
http://www.postgresql.org.
R Development Core Team (2009). R: a Language and Environment for Statistical
Computing.
Rice, J., Shelton, P., Rivard, D., Chouinard, G. and FrÈchet, A. (2003). Recovering
Canadian Atlantic cod stocks: the shape of things to come. ICES CM 2003/U 06,
23pp.
Ripley, B., and from 1999 to Oct 2002 Michael Lapsley (2009). RODBC: ODBC
Database Access. R package version 1.3-1.
28

S·enz-Arroyo, A., Roberts, C.M., Torre, J., CariÒo-Olvera, M. and Enr¥\0131quez-Andrade,
R.R. (2005). Rapidly shifting environmental baselines among fishers of the Gulf of
California. Proceedings of the Royal Society B 272, 1957--1962.
Sherman, K., Alexander, L. and Gold, B., eds. (1993). Large Marine Ecosystems:
stress, mitigation, and sustainability. AAAS Press.
Sibert, J., Hampton, J., Kleiber, P. and Maunder, M. (2006). Biomass, Size, and
Trophic Status of Top Predators in the Pacific Ocean. Science 314, 1773--1776.
Walters, C. (2003). Folly and fantasy in the analysis of spatial catch rate data.
Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences 60, 1433--1436.
Watson, R., Kitchingman, A., Gelchu, A. and Pauly, D. (2004). Mapping global
fisheries: sharpening our focus. Fish and Fisheries 5, 168--177.
Wessel, P. and Smith, W.H.F. (1991). Free software helps map and display data. EOS
Transactions of the American Geophysical Union 72, 441.
Wilberg, M. and Miller, T. (2007). Comment on ''Impacts of biodiversity loss on ocean
ecosystem services''. Science 316, 1285b.
Wilson, D., Curtotti, R., Begg, G. and Phillips, K., eds. (2009). Fishery status reports
2008: status of fish stocks and fisheries managed by the Australian Government.
Bureau of Rural Sciences and Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource
Economics, Canberra.
Worm, B., Barbier, E., Beaumont, N. et al. (2006). Impacts of Biodiversity Loss on
Ocean Ecosystem Services. Science 314, 787--790.
Worm, B., Hilborn, R., Baum, J.K. et al. (2009). Rebuilding global fisheries. Science
325, 578--585.
Tables
29

Table 1: Number of assessments included in the RAM Legacy database
Country/Ocean Management Body Acronym No. stocks
Australia Australian Fisheries
Management Authority AFMA 16
Multinational Commission for the
Conservation of Antarctic
Marine Living Resources CCAMLR 1
Argentina Consejo Federal Pesquero CFP 6
South Africa South African national
management DETMCM 14
Canada Department of Fisheries
and Oceans DFO 22
Multinational Inter-American Tropical
Tuna Commission IATTC 2
Multinational International Commission
for the Conservation of
Atlantic Tunas ICCAT 10
Multinational International Council for
the Exploration of the Sea ICES 63
Peru Instituto del Mar del Peru IMARPE 1
Multinational Indian Ocean Tuna
Commission IOTC 1
Multinational International Pacific
Halibut Commission IPHC 1
New Zealand Ministry of Fisheries MFish 29
Multinational Northwest Atlantic
Fisheries Organization NAFO 8
USA National Marine Fisheries
Service NMFS 139
Russia Russian Federal Fisheries
Agency RFFA 2
Multinational South Pacific Regional
Fisheries Management
Organization SPRFMO 1
Multinational Unknown management
body UNKNOWN 1
USA US state-level management US State 3
Multinational Western and Central Pacific
Fisheries Commission WCPFC 430

Table 2: The world's forty largest wild-caught fisheries (constituting less than 41% of total global catches,
based on average catches 1995-2004 in SAUP database), and the thirty largest fisheries of individual stocks
(i.e. fisheries identified to the species level; constituting more than 32% of total global catches), including
their LME, whether or not stock assessments for them are included in the RAM Legacy database, and the
reason if not included (e.g. 1= no known assessment, 2=assessment is not based on a population dynamics
model, 3=assessment inaccessible).
Stock
Rank Stock
Number Species (Common name,
Latin name) or higher
taxonomic unit LME In
Database? Reason
if not
included
1 1 Peruvian anchoveta,
Engraulis ringens Humboldt Current ?
2 Marine fishes not identified South China Sea x 1
3 Marine fishes not identified Bay of Bengal x 1
4 2 Alaska pollock, Theragra
chalcogramma Okhotsk Sea ?
5 3 Ammodytes North Sea ?
6 4 Atlantic herring, Clupea
harengus Norwegian Sea ?
Continued on next page
31

Stock
Rank Individual
species
rank Species (Common name,
Latin name) or higher
taxonomic unit LME In
Database? Reason
if not
included
7 5 Alaska pollock, Theragra
chalcogramma East Bering Sea ?
8 6 Capelin, Mallotus villosus Iceland Shelf/Sea ?
9 7 European pilchard, Sardina
pilchardus Canary Current ?
10 8 Japanese anchovy, Engraulis
japonicus East China Sea x 3
11 9 Inca scad, Trachurus
murphyi Humboldt Current ?
12 Marine fishes not identified East China Sea x 1
13 10 Gulf menhaden, Brevoortia
patronus Gulf of Mexico ?
14 Marine fishes not identified Yellow Sea x 1
15 Marine fishes not identified Indonesian Sea x 1
16 11 Alaska pollock, Theragra
chalcogramma Gulf ofAlaska ?
Continued on next page
32

Stock
Rank Individual
species
rank Species (Common name,
Latin name) or higher
taxonomic unit LME In
Database? Reason
if not
included
17 12 Argentinean short-finned
squid, Illex argentinus Patagonian Shelf x 1
18 13 Argentine hake, Merluccius
hubbsi Patagonian Shelf ?
19 14 Japanese anchovy, Engraulis
japonicus South China Sea x 1
20 15 Araucanian herring,
Strangomera bentincki Humboldt Current x ?
21 16 Atlantic cod, Gadus morhua Barents Sea ?
22 17 European sprat, Sprattus
sprattus Baltic Sea ?
23 18 Atlantic herring, Clupea
harengus North Sea ?
24 19 Alaska pollock, Theragra
chalcogramma Arctic Ocean x ?
25 Marine fishes not identified Gulf of Thailand x 1
Continued on next page
33

Stock
Rank Individual
species
rank Species (Common name,
Latin name) or higher
taxonomic unit LME In
Database? Reason
if not
included
26 20 Atlantic herring, Clupea
harengus Baltic Sea ?
27 21 Cape horse mackerel,
Trachurus capensis Benguela Current ?
28 22 Largehead hairtail,
Trichiurus lepturus East China Sea x ?
29 23 Japanese anchovy, Engraulis
japonicus Yellow Sea x ?
30 24 European anchovy,
Engraulis encrasicolus Black Sea x ?
31 25 Chub mackerel, Scomber
japonicus East China Sea x ?
32 26 Indian oil sardine, Sardinella
longiceps Arabian Sea x 1
33 Decapterus South China Sea x ?
34 Sciaenidae Arabian Sea x ?
Continued on next page
34

Stock
Rank Individual
species
rank Species (Common name,
Latin name) or higher
taxonomic unit LME In
Database? Reason
if not
included
35 27 Atlantic mackerel, Scomber
scombrus North Sea ?
36 28 Largehead hairtail,
Trichiurus lepturus Yellow Sea x ?
37 Merluccius Benguela Current ?
38 Marine fishes not identified Kuroshio Current x ?
39 29 Alaska pollock, Theragra
chalcogramma Sea of Japan x ?
40 30 Round sardinella, Sardinella
aurita Canary Current x ?
35

Figures
Figure legends
Figure 1. Global map of Large Marine Ecosystems (LMEs) and high seas areas (ovals)
showing the number of stock assessments present in the database for each area.
Figure 2. Taxonomic coverage of assessed marine species present in the RAM Legacy
database. The circle located near the middle of the circular dendrogram represents
kingdom Animalia and each subsequent branching represents a different taxonomic
group (Kingdom to Phylum to Class to Order to Family to Genus to Species). The
width of each line is proportional to the square root of the number of assessments in
the database. The outermost lines represent species and the number of lines is the
number of assessments for each species. The names of multi-assessment species are not
repeated on the outermost portion of the dendrogram but continue counter-clockwise
from the first entry. Note that branch lengths are chosen for graphical purposes and
do not convey phylogenetic distance.
Figure 3. Comparison of the taxonomic diversity of marine species as provided by
FishBase (top panel), the coverage of catch data as provided by the Sea Around Us
Project (SAUP) database (middle panel) and the new RAM Legacy database (bottom
panel). To facilitate the identification of the taxonomic groups that are not presented
in the catch and assessment data, the FishBase branching pattern of the spoked
dendrogram is maintained to generate the other two dendrograms.
Figure 4. Orca plots showing the temporal coverage of (A) catch/landings, (B) spawning
stock biomass and (C) recruitment. The temporal coverage for individual assessments is
represented by thin alternating black and grey horizontal lines in the main panels. Orca
plots are named because their distinctive shape is uncannily similar to the individually-identifiable
nicked and notched dorsal fins of killer whales (orcas). Thick horizontal lines at the
36

base of each main panel represent the time periods which are present in 90% (black) and
50% (grey) of all series for that data type. Subfigure histograms contain the frequency
of occurrence of the various timespans without reference to time period. Solid and
long-dash vertical lines within the subfigures represent the median, 2.5% and 97.5%
quantiles, respectively.
Figure 5. Current exploitation rate versus current biomass for 241 individual stocks.
Exploitation is scaled relative to that which should allow maximum sustainable yield
(Umsy); biomass is scaled relative to Bmsy. Shades of grey indicate probability of
occurrence as revealed by a kernel density smooth function. Solid circles indicate Bmsy
and Umsy that were obtained directly from assessments; open circles indicate that they
were estimated from surplus production models.
Figure 6. Current exploitation rate versus biomass for individual stocks grouped by
management unit. The panel labelled ``Atlantic'' comprises ICCAT and NAFO. Plot
details as in Figure 6.
37

Figures
38

Figure 1:
39

Figure 2:
40

Figure 3:41

Figure 4:42

Figure 5:
43

Figure 6:
44

